Statistics: It is the science of conducting studies to collect, organize, summarize, analyze, and draw a conclusion out of data.

-> Deals with collective, informative data, interpreting and drawing conclusion. 
-> Used in marketing, business, healthcare etc.

Types of stats:

1. Descriptive: helps us to organize and summarize data using numbers and graphs, finding patterns in it.
-> Metrics are Mean, median, and mode.(Central tendency)
-> Standard deviation, variance, and range(Variability)

2. Inferential: Predicting from the population, sample and data used. We use probability to determine the conclusion

Basic Stat terms:

Population: A set of individuals or objects are to be analyzed.
Sample: It is a subset of a population.
Variable: It is a characteristic of each element of a population or sample.
Experiment: It is an activity where we can produce results from a collection of data
Parameter: Nothing but metrics.
Statistic: A numerical value summarizing the sample data

Types of descriptive data:

1)Categorical: The data represents groups or categories 
2)Numerical: It represent numbers and has two groups. Discrete and continuous.

Discrete is finite(no of students in a school, no.of items)
continuous(Height, area, and time)

Levels of measurement:
1) Qualitative: It is a variable that categorizes or describes a population element.

2) Quantitative: A variable that quantifies a population element. classified into 2 categories nominal and ordinal

nominal level represents categories that cannot be put in any order, while ordinal represents categories that can be ordered.

2 levels are interval and ratio

Measures of central tendency

mean, median, and mode

Measures of dispersion:

Range, variance, and Standard deviation

Range is diff of largest and smallest
variance is a measure of dispersion in a data set.
Standard deviation is the concentration of data around the mean of the data set.
it is the square root of the variance.

measures of dependence:

covariance and correlation

it is the measure of relationship b/w same and opp direction
correlation is also relationship b/w 2 features. Person's correlation coefficient.

Symmetrical and Asymmetrical distribution.

mean med and mode lines are close in the graph in sym dis
in asym dis the lines are dispersed

Random variables:

A set of all possible values froma  random experiment

discrete random variable is one that may take on only a countable number of distinct values.
If the random variable can take only the finite number of distinct values, then it must be a discrete random variable.

Continuous random variable:

takes an infinite number of possible values.

Set:
A set is a well-defined collection of objects.
A set that contains zero elements is called a  null set (empty set).

we can perform operations like union, intersection, and complement between two sets.


skewness:

Skewness is defined as a measure of the dataset’s symmetry.   A perfectly symmetrical data set will have zero skewness.   







